IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Custom database feature Custom database feature A database is one of the data sources that you can register and use in IBM® IBM® watsonx.data. A catalog defines the schemas and metadata for a data source. You can now use the custom catalog to create connections to data stores that are not provided by the built-in connectors. Custom database feature can be used for connectors that are already supported by Presto as per the Presto documentation but not listed in IBM IBM® watsonx.data supported connectors or databases. To add a custom database-catalog pair, complete the following steps. Log in to the watsonx.data console. From the navigation menu, select Infrastructure manager. To add a database, click Add component and select Add database. In the Add database window, select custom database from the Database type drop-down list. Configure the following deatils for Custom database: Use of this feature may crash your Presto engine if configured incorrectly. IBM does not provide support for use of this feature.. Two databases with the same name cannot be added. Custom databases do not support SSL configuration. Table 1. Register database Field Description Display name Enter the database name to be displayed on the screen. Property value Enter the properties and their values to be configured for the database. Enter the property name:value pair as specified in Presto documentation. You can add multiple properties. connector.name= Enter the name of the database connector that you want to add as specified in Presto documentation. Encryption Encrypting values of the keys are stored. Associated catalog Enter the name of the catalog. This catalog is automatically associated with your database. Click Add. Custom database feature A database is one of the data sources that you can register and use in IBM® IBM® watsonx.data. A catalog defines the schemas and metadata for a data source. You can now use the custom catalog to create connections to data stores that are not provided by the built-in connectors. Custom database feature can be used for connectors that are already supported by Presto as per the Presto documentation but not listed in IBM IBM® watsonx.data supported connectors or databases. To add a custom database-catalog pair, complete the following steps. Log in to the watsonx.data console. Log in to the watsonx.data console. From the navigation menu, select Infrastructure manager. From the navigation menu, select Infrastructure manager. To add a database, click Add component and select Add database. To add a database, click Add component and select Add database. In the Add database window, select custom database from the Database type drop-down list. In the Add database window, select custom database from the Database type drop-down list. Configure the following deatils for Custom database: Use of this feature may crash your Presto engine if configured incorrectly. IBM does not provide support for use of this feature.. Two databases with the same name cannot be added. Custom databases do not support SSL configuration. Table 1. Register database Field Description Display name Enter the database name to be displayed on the screen. Property value Enter the properties and their values to be configured for the database. Enter the property name:value pair as specified in Presto documentation. You can add multiple properties. connector.name= Enter the name of the database connector that you want to add as specified in Presto documentation. Encryption Encrypting values of the keys are stored. Associated catalog Enter the name of the catalog. This catalog is automatically associated with your database. Configure the following deatils for Custom database: Use of this feature may crash your Presto engine if configured incorrectly. IBM does not provide support for use of this feature.. Two databases with the same name cannot be added. Custom databases do not support SSL configuration. Display name Enter the database name to be displayed on the screen. Property value Enter the properties and their values to be configured for the database. Enter the property name:value pair as specified in Presto documentation. You can add multiple properties. connector.name= Enter the name of the database connector that you want to add as specified in Presto documentation. Encryption Encrypting values of the keys are stored. Associated catalog Enter the name of the catalog. This catalog is automatically associated with your database. Click Add. Click Add.
