IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Managing data policy rules Managing data policy rules Protecting access to data is a critical requirement for many enterprises. To ensure that your data is protected from unauthorized access, IBM® watsonx.data can manage access controls for data. A user with admin privileges on the data can create access policies to define, extend, limit and deny, by using the data security solution that is provided by watsonx.data. To maintain data security, you can create access policies for the following at the data level: Schemas, tables, and columns. Users or user groups. Actions. Create Access control policies Log in to watsonx.data console. From the navigation menu, select Access control. Select Policies from the Access control page, click Add policy. Create access control policy page opens. In the Basics page, enter a policy name, policy description and select the policy status after creation. Click Next. In the Data page, select a catalog and choose a single or all schema, table, or column where you want to add the data policy. Click Next to add rules. In the Rules page, click Add rule. Select the rule type, user actions, users or groups and click Add to add the rule. Click Review to see the rule. Click Save to save the policy. Managing data policy rules Protecting access to data is a critical requirement for many enterprises. To ensure that your data is protected from unauthorized access, IBM® watsonx.data can manage access controls for data. A user with admin privileges on the data can create access policies to define, extend, limit and deny, by using the data security solution that is provided by watsonx.data. To maintain data security, you can create access policies for the following at the data level: Schemas, tables, and columns. Users or user groups. Actions. Create Access control policies Log in to watsonx.data console. From the navigation menu, select Access control. Select Policies from the Access control page, click Add policy. Create access control policy page opens. In the Basics page, enter a policy name, policy description and select the policy status after creation. Click Next. In the Data page, select a catalog and choose a single or all schema, table, or column where you want to add the data policy. Click Next to add rules. In the Rules page, click Add rule. Select the rule type, user actions, users or groups and click Add to add the rule. Click Review to see the rule. Click Save to save the policy.
