IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Managing the Spark engine details Managing the Spark engine details IBM® watsonx.data allows you to view and edit the details of a Spark engine. You can also monitor the status of the applications that are submitted in the instance. Viewing the Spark engine details You can view the Spark details in list and topology views. Click the name of Spark engine (either from list or topology view). Engine information window opens. In the Details tab, you can view the following details: Table 1. Details tab Field Description Display name The Spark engine name. Engine ID The unique identifier of the Spark instance. Description The description of the engine. Tags The tag that is specified at the time of registering an engine. Type The engine type. Here, IBM Analytics Engine (Spark). Instance URL The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) URL. watsonx.data application endpoint The application submission endpoint. To submit an application by using API, see API Docs. Instance API endpoint The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) API endpoint. History server endpoint The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) history server endpoint. History server The history server URL, where you can view the history details of the applications that are run. Editing the Spark engine details You can edit the Spark details in list and topology views. Click the name of Spark engine (either from list or topology view). Engine information window opens. In the Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the display name for the Spark engine. In the Description field, enter the description of the engine or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from the list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save. Viewing the Spark applications submitted in watsonx.data You can view the status of the submitted Spark applications in list and topology views. Click the name of the Spark engine (either from list or topology view). Engine information window opens. In Applications tab, you can view the list of all applications that are submitted to watsonx.data. The tab also displays the details such as the status of each application, the Spark version used for running the application, creation date, and run date. Managing the Spark engine details IBM® watsonx.data allows you to view and edit the details of a Spark engine. You can also monitor the status of the applications that are submitted in the instance. Viewing the Spark engine details You can view the Spark details in list and topology views. Click the name of Spark engine (either from list or topology view). Engine information window opens. Click the name of Spark engine (either from list or topology view). Engine information window opens. In the Details tab, you can view the following details: Table 1. Details tab Field Description Display name The Spark engine name. Engine ID The unique identifier of the Spark instance. Description The description of the engine. Tags The tag that is specified at the time of registering an engine. Type The engine type. Here, IBM Analytics Engine (Spark). Instance URL The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) URL. watsonx.data application endpoint The application submission endpoint. To submit an application by using API, see API Docs. Instance API endpoint The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) API endpoint. History server endpoint The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) history server endpoint. History server The history server URL, where you can view the history details of the applications that are run. In the Details tab, you can view the following details: Display name The Spark engine name. Engine ID The unique identifier of the Spark instance. Description The description of the engine. Tags The tag that is specified at the time of registering an engine. Type The engine type. Here, IBM Analytics Engine (Spark). Instance URL The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) URL. watsonx.data application endpoint The application submission endpoint. To submit an application by using API, see API Docs. API Docs Instance API endpoint The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) API endpoint. History server endpoint The IBM Analytics Engine (Spark) history server endpoint. History server The history server URL, where you can view the history details of the applications that are run. Editing the Spark engine details You can edit the Spark details in list and topology views. Click the name of Spark engine (either from list or topology view). Engine information window opens. In the Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the display name for the Spark engine. In the Description field, enter the description of the engine or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from the list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save. Viewing the Spark applications submitted in watsonx.data You can view the status of the submitted Spark applications in list and topology views. Click the name of the Spark engine (either from list or topology view). Engine information window opens. In Applications tab, you can view the list of all applications that are submitted to watsonx.data. The tab also displays the details such as the status of each application, the Spark version used for running the application, creation date, and run date.
