IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Exporting and importing the query history Exporting and importing the query history The Presto coordinator stores the query history in system.runtime.queries table. But system.runtime.queries table truncates when you restart Presto, resulting in loss of query history. To mitigate this issue, you can export query history as a csv file and also import the query history from the system.runtime.queries table to a non-system table. It is recommended to periodically export the query history to avoid losing it. To import and export the query history, you must install the Presto CLI. For more information, see Connecting to Presto server. Exporting query history To export the query history, run the following command. export PRESTO\_PASSWORD= ./presto --server https:// --catalog system \ -- schemaruntime --execute "select \* from queries" \ --user ibmlhapikey --output-format CSV\_HEADER > history.csv --password This command generates a CSV file, which contains exported query history. Example ./presto --server https://8dac613f-ba5b-4c3c-8c96- ce8de101f7cf.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:30929 \ --execute "select \* from system.runtime.queries" --output-format CSV\_HEADER \ --user ibmlhapikey output-format CSV > history.csv --password Importing query history To import the query history, create a schema in a catalog in which you have the write access. create schema with (location=' s3a:///') Example ./presto --server https://8dac613f-ba5b- 4c3c-8c96-\ ce8de101f7cf.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:30929 \ --execute "create schema iceberg\_data.query\_history with \ (location='s3a://8dac613f-ba5b-4c3c-8c96-ce8de101f7cf-customer/query\_history')" \ --user ibmlhapikey --password Create a table in same catalog. This table must have same metadata as that of system.runtime.queries table. Use CREATE TABLE AS SELECT statement to create this table. create table as select \* from system.runtime.queries where 1=0; Example ./presto --server https://8dac613f-ba5b-4c3c-8c96- ce8de101f7cf.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:30929 --execute "create table iceberg\_data.query\_history.queries as select \* from system.runtime.queries where 1=0" --user ibmlhapikey --password To import the query history into the table that you have just created table, run the following query periodically. INSERT INTO SELECT \* FROM system.runtime.queries WHERE query\_id NOT IN (SELECT query\_id FROM ); Example ./presto --server \ https://8dac613f-ba5b-4c3c-8c96- ce8de101f7cf.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:3092 \ –-execute "insert into iceberg\_data.query\_history.queries select \* from system. runtime.queries \ where query\_id not in (select query\_id from iceberg\_data.query\_history.queries)" --user ibmlhapikey --password To retrieve query history from both tables, use following statement. select \* from union select \* from `system.runtime.queries` order by created; Example ./presto --server \ https://23b06b14-342b-4ed2-841d-7f02ca9ae788.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:31530 \ -- execute " select \* from iceberg\_data.query\_history.queries union \ select \* from system.runtime.queries order by created " \ --output- format=CSV\_HEADER --user ibmlhapikey --password Exporting and importing the query history The Presto coordinator stores the query history in system.runtime.queries table. But system.runtime.queries table truncates when you restart Presto, resulting in loss of query history. To mitigate this issue, you can export query history as a csv file and also import the query history from the system.runtime.queries table to a non-system table. It is recommended to periodically export the query history to avoid losing it. To import and export the query history, you must install the Presto CLI. For more information, see Connecting to Presto server. Connecting to Presto server Exporting query history To export the query history, run the following command. This command generates a CSV file, which contains exported query history. Example Importing query history To import the query history, create a schema in a catalog in which you have the write access. create schema with (location=' s3a:///') Example ./presto -- server https://8dac613f-ba5b-4c3c-8c96-\ ce8de101f7cf.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:30929 \ --execute "create schema iceberg\_data.query\_history with \ (location='s3a://8dac613f-ba5b-4c3c-8c96-ce8de101f7cf-customer/query\_history')" \ --user ibmlhapikey -- password To import the query history, create a schema in a catalog in which you have the write access. Example Create a table in same catalog. This table must have same metadata as that of system.runtime.queries table. Use CREATE TABLE AS SELECT statement to create this table. create table as select \* from system.runtime.queries where 1=0; Example ./presto --server https://8dac613f-ba5b-4c3c-8c96- ce8de101f7cf.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:30929 --execute "create table iceberg\_data.query\_history.queries as select \* from system.runtime.queries where 1=0" --user ibmlhapikey --password Create a table in same catalog. This table must have same metadata as that of system.runtime.queries table. Use CREATE TABLE AS SELECT statement to create this table. Example To import the query history into the table that you have just created table, run the following query periodically. INSERT INTO SELECT \* FROM system.runtime.queries WHERE query\_id NOT IN (SELECT query\_id FROM ); Example ./presto --server \ https://8dac613f-ba5b-4c3c-8c96- ce8de101f7cf.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:3092 \ –-execute "insert into iceberg\_data.query\_history.queries select \* from system. runtime.queries \ where query\_id not in (select query\_id from iceberg\_data.query\_history.queries)" --user ibmlhapikey --password To import the query history into the table that you have just created table, run the following query periodically. Example To retrieve query history from both tables, use following statement. select \* from union select \* from `system.runtime.queries` order by created; Example ./presto --server \ https://23b06b14-342b-4ed2-841d-7f02ca9ae788.cdc406pd09pasng7elgg.databases.appdomain.cloud:31530 \ --execute " select \* from iceberg\_data.query\_history.queries union \ select \* from system.runtime.queries order by created " \ --output-format=CSV\_HEADER --user ibmlhapikey --password To retrieve query history from both tables, use following statement. Example
