IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Editing engine details Editing engine details To edit the display name, description and tags of an engine, use one of the following methods: Editing engine details in list view Click the name of engine. Engine information window opens. In Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the display name for the engine. In the Description field, enter the description of the engine or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from the list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save. Editing engine details in topology view Click the engine. Engine information window opens. In Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the display name for the engine. In the Description field, enter the description of the engine or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from the list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save. Editing engine details To edit the display name, description and tags of an engine, use one of the following methods: Editing engine details in list view Click the name of engine. Engine information window opens. In Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the display name for the engine. In the Description field, enter the description of the engine or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from the list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save. Editing engine details in topology view Click the engine. Engine information window opens. In Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the display name for the engine. In the Description field, enter the description of the engine or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from the list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save.
