IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Getting started with Spark use case Getting started with Spark use case This topic provides the procedure to run Spark use cases for watsonx.data by using Python samples. All the samples are written by using Spark Python APIs. Prerequisites Provision an IBM® watsonx.data instance. Configure an IBM Analytics Engine instance. Cloud Object Storage bucket connection details. About the sample use case The sample file demonstrates the following functionalities: Accessing tables from watsonx.data The Create a database in Lakehouse catalog section from the sample python file creates a database demodb in the configured watsonx.data instance with a catalog named lakehouse. demodb is configured to store all the data and metadata under the Cloud Object Storage(COS) bucket lakehouse- bucket. It also creates an iceberg table testTable and accesses it. Ingesting data to watsonx.data The Ingest parquet data into a lakehouse table section from the sample python file allows you to ingest data in parquet and CSV format from a source Cloud Object Storage bucket source- bucket into a watsonx.data table. Sample data in parquet format is inserted from source COS bucket source-bucket into the watsonx.data table yellow\_taxi\_2022 (see the steps for inserting sample data into the source COS bucket). It also shows ingesting data in CSV format from COS bucket source-bucket into the table zipcode in the database demodb. Modifying schema in watsonx.data The Schema evolution section from the sample python file allows you to modify data in watsonx.data. Performing table maintenance activities in watsonx.data Table maintenance helps in keeping the watsonx.data table performant. Iceberg provides table maintenance procedures out of the box that allows performing powerful table optimizations in a declarative fashion. The following sample demonstrates how to do some table maintenance operations by using Spark. For more information about the Iceberg Spark table maintenance operations, see Table Operations. Inserting sample data into the COS bucket To insert data to COS, do the following steps. Create a COS bucket(for example, source-bucket) to store sample data to be ingested into watsonx.data instance. For information about creating COS bucket see, Getting started with IBM Cloud Object Storage. As a user of Object Storage, you not only need to know the API key or the HMAC keys to configure Object Storage, but also the IBM Analytics Engine service endpoints to connect to Object Storage. See Selecting regions and endpoints for more information on the endpoints to use based on your Object Storage bucket type, such as regional versus cross-regional. You can also view the endpoints across regions for your Object Storage service by selecting the service on your IBM Cloud dashboard and clicking Endpoint in the navigation pane. Always choose the direct endpoint. Direct endpoint provide better performance and do not incur charges. An example of an endpoint for US-South Cross region is s3.direct.us.cloud-object- storage.appdomain.cloud. Download sample csv file (for example, zipcodes.csv) and parquet sample data (for example, six months taxi data for year 2022) from the following links. Sample parquet file. Sample CSV file Install IBM Cloud Object Storage plug-in. For more information about how to install plug-in, see IBM Cloud Object Storage CLI. Use the COS cli to upload the sample data into COS bucket. ibmcloud cos upload -- bucket --key --file Parameter values: : name of the bucket created in step1. : the name of the sample data file that you downloaded. Here, key zipcodes.csv is the file name (see the following example). : the path to the location in your machine where the file resides. Here, path/zipcodes.csv is the file path (see the following example). For example: ibmcloud cos upload --bucket source-bucket --key zipcodes.csv --file Running the sample use case Follow the steps to run the Spark sample Python file. Spark sample Python file from pyspark.sql import SparkSession import os def init\_spark(): spark = SparkSession.builder \ .appName("lh-hms-cloud") \ .config("spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket.lakehouse-bucket.endpoint" ,"s3.direct.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud") \ .config("spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket.lakehouse-bucket.access.key" ,"") \ .config("spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket.lakehouse-bucket.secret.key" ,"") \ .config("spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket.source-bucket.endpoint" ,"s3.direct.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud") \ .config("spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket.source-bucket.access.key" ,"") \ .config("spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket.source-bucket.secret.key" ,"") \ .enableHiveSupport() \ .getOrCreate() return spark def create\_database(spark): # Create a database in the lakehouse catalog spark.sql("create database if not exists lakehouse.demodb LOCATION 's3a://lakehouse-bucket/'") def list\_databases(spark): # list the database under lakehouse catalog spark.sql("show databases from lakehouse").show() def basic\_iceberg\_table\_operations(spark): # demonstration: Create a basic Iceberg table, insert some data and then query table spark.sql("create table if not exists lakehouse.demodb.testTable(id INTEGER, name VARCHAR(10), age INTEGER, salary DECIMAL(10, 2)) using iceberg").show() spark.sql("insert into lakehouse.demodb.testTable values(1,'Alan',23,3400.00),(2,'Ben',30,5500.00), (3,'Chen',35,6500.00)") spark.sql("select \* from lakehouse.demodb.testTable").show() def create\_table\_from\_parquet\_data(spark): # load parquet data into dataframe df = spark.read.option("header",True).parquet("s3a://source-bucket/nyc-taxi/yellow\_tripdata\_2022-01.parquet") # write the dataframe into an Iceberg table df.writeTo("lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022").create() # describe the table created spark.sql('describe table lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022').show(25) # query the table spark.sql('select \* from lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022').count() def ingest\_from\_csv\_temp\_table(spark): # load csv data into a dataframe csvDF = spark.read.option("header",True).csv("s3a://source-bucket/zipcodes.csv") csvDF.createOrReplaceTempView("tempCSVTable") # load temporary table into an Iceberg table spark.sql('create or replace table lakehouse.demodb.zipcodes using iceberg as select \* from tempCSVTable') # describe the table created spark.sql('describe table lakehouse.demodb.zipcodes').show(25) # query the table spark.sql('select \* from lakehouse.demodb.zipcodes').show() def ingest\_monthly\_data(spark): df\_feb = spark.read.option("header",True).parquet("s3a://source- bucket//nyc-taxi/yellow\_tripdata\_2022-02.parquet") df\_march = spark.read.option("header",True).parquet("s3a://source-bucket//nyc- taxi/yellow\_tripdata\_2022-03.parquet") df\_april = spark.read.option("header",True).parquet("s3a://source-bucket//nyc- taxi/yellow\_tripdata\_2022-04.parquet") df\_may = spark.read.option("header",True).parquet("s3a://source-bucket//nyc- taxi/yellow\_tripdata\_2022-05.parquet") df\_june = spark.read.option("header",True).parquet("s3a://source-bucket//nyc- taxi/yellow\_tripdata\_2022-06.parquet") df\_q1\_q2 = df\_feb.union(df\_march).union(df\_april).union(df\_may).union(df\_june) df\_q1\_q2.write.insertInto("lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022") def perform\_table\_maintenance\_operations(spark): # Query the metadata files table to list underlying data files spark.sql("SELECT file\_path, file\_size\_in\_bytes FROM lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022.files").show() # There are many smaller files compact them into files of 200MB each using the # `rewrite\_data\_files` Iceberg Spark procedure spark.sql(f"CALL lakehouse.system.rewrite\_data\_files(table => 'demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022', options => map('target-file-size-bytes','209715200'))").show() # Again, query the metadata files table to list underlying data files; 6 files are compacted # to 3 files spark.sql("SELECT file\_path, file\_size\_in\_bytes FROM lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022.files").show() # List all the snapshots # Expire earlier snapshots. Only latest one with compacted data is required # Again, List all the snapshots to see only 1 left spark.sql("SELECT committed\_at, snapshot\_id, operation FROM lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022.snapshots").show() #retain only the latest one latest\_snapshot\_committed\_at = spark.sql("SELECT committed\_at, snapshot\_id, operation FROM lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022.snapshots").tail(1)[0].committed\_at print (latest\_snapshot\_committed\_at) spark.sql(f"CALL lakehouse.system.expire\_snapshots(table => 'demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022',older\_than => TIMESTAMP '{latest\_snapshot\_committed\_at}',retain\_last => 1)").show() spark.sql("SELECT committed\_at, snapshot\_id, operation FROM lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022.snapshots").show() # Removing Orphan data files spark.sql(f"CALL lakehouse.system.remove\_orphan\_files(table => 'demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022')").show(truncate=False) # Rewriting Manifest Files spark.sql(f"CALL lakehouse.system.rewrite\_manifests('demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022')").show() def evolve\_schema(spark): # demonstration: Schema evolution # Add column fare\_per\_mile to the table spark.sql('ALTER TABLE lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022 ADD COLUMN(fare\_per\_mile double)') # describe the table spark.sql('describe table lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022').show(25) def clean\_database(spark): # clean-up the demo database spark.sql('drop table if exists lakehouse.demodb.testTable purge') spark.sql('drop table if exists lakehouse.demodb.zipcodes purge') spark.sql('drop table if exists lakehouse.demodb.yellow\_taxi\_2022 purge') spark.sql('drop database if exists lakehouse.demodb cascade') def main(): try: spark = init\_spark() create\_database(spark) list\_databases(spark) basic\_iceberg\_table\_operations(spark) # demonstration: Ingest parquet and csv data into a watsonx.data Iceberg table create\_table\_from\_parquet\_data(spark) ingest\_from\_csv\_temp\_table(spark) # load data for the month of February to June into the table yellow\_taxi\_2022 created above ingest\_monthly\_data(spark) # demonstration: Table maintenance perform\_table\_maintenance\_operations(spark) # demonstration: Schema evolution evolve\_schema(spark) finally: # clean-up the demo database clean\_database(spark) spark.stop() if \_\_name\_\_ == '\_\_main\_\_': main() Save the following sample python file. Upload the Python file to the Cloud Object Storage bucket. You must maintain the Spark applications and their dependencies in a Cloud Object Storage bucket and not mix them with data buckets. Generate the IAM token for the IBM Analytics Engine token. For more information about how to generate an IAM token, see IAM token Run the following curl command to submit the Spark application: curl https://api..ae.cloud.ibm.com/v3/analytics\_engines//spark\_applications -H "Authorization: Bearer " -X POST -d '{ "application\_details": { "application": "s3a:///lakehouse-hms-test-cloud-doc-sample.py", "conf": { "spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket..endpoint": "https://s3.direct.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud", "spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket..access.key": "", "spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.bucket..secret.key": "" } } }' This sample is tested on the Cloud Object Storage buckets in the us-south region. Change the region in the Cloud Object Storage endpoint configuration as per the region where your Cloud Object Storage buckets reside. It is recommended to provision the COS buckets in the region where Analytics Engine instance is provisioned. Getting started with Spark use case This topic provides the procedure to run Spark use cases for watsonx.data by using Python samples. All the samples are written by using Spark Python APIs. Prerequisites Provision an IBM® watsonx.data instance. Configure an IBM Analytics Engine instance. Cloud Object Storage bucket connection details. About the sample use case The sample file demonstrates the following functionalities: Accessing tables from watsonx.data The Create a database in Lakehouse catalog section from the sample python file creates a database demodb in the configured watsonx.data instance with a catalog named lakehouse. demodb is configured to store all the data and metadata under the Cloud Object Storage(COS) bucket lakehouse- bucket. It also creates an iceberg table testTable and accesses it. Accessing tables from watsonx.data The Create a database in Lakehouse catalog section from the sample python file creates a database demodb in the configured watsonx.data instance with a catalog named lakehouse. demodb is configured to store all the data and metadata under the Cloud Object Storage(COS) bucket lakehouse-bucket. It also creates an iceberg table testTable and accesses it. sample python file Ingesting data to watsonx.data The Ingest parquet data into a lakehouse table section from the sample python file allows you to ingest data in parquet and CSV format from a source Cloud Object Storage bucket source-bucket into a watsonx.data table. Sample data in parquet format is inserted from source COS bucket source-bucket into the watsonx.data table yellow\_taxi\_2022 (see the steps for inserting sample data into the source COS bucket). It also shows ingesting data in CSV format from COS bucket source-bucket into the table zipcode in the database demodb. Ingesting data to watsonx.data The Ingest parquet data into a lakehouse table section from the sample python file allows you to ingest data in parquet and CSV format from a source Cloud Object Storage bucket source-bucket into a watsonx.data table. Sample data in parquet format is inserted from source COS bucket source-bucket into the watsonx.data table yellow\_taxi\_2022 (see the steps for inserting sample data into the source COS bucket). It also shows ingesting data in CSV format from COS bucket source-bucket into the table zipcode in the database demodb. sample python file steps Modifying schema in watsonx.data The Schema evolution section from the sample python file allows you to modify data in watsonx.data. Modifying schema in watsonx.data The Schema evolution section from the sample python file allows you to modify data in watsonx.data. sample python file Performing table maintenance activities in watsonx.data Table maintenance helps in keeping the watsonx.data table performant. Iceberg provides table maintenance procedures out of the box that allows performing powerful table optimizations in a declarative fashion. The following sample demonstrates how to do some table maintenance operations by using Spark. For more information about the Iceberg Spark table maintenance operations, see Table Operations. Performing table maintenance activities in watsonx.data Table maintenance helps in keeping the watsonx.data table performant. Iceberg provides table maintenance procedures out of the box that allows performing powerful table optimizations in a declarative fashion. The following sample demonstrates how to do some table maintenance operations by using Spark. For more information about the Iceberg Spark table maintenance operations, see Table Operations. Table Operations Inserting sample data into the COS bucket To insert data to COS, do the following steps. Create a COS bucket(for example, source-bucket) to store sample data to be ingested into watsonx.data instance. For information about creating COS bucket see, Getting started with IBM Cloud Object Storage. As a user of Object Storage, you not only need to know the API key or the HMAC keys to configure Object Storage, but also the IBM Analytics Engine service endpoints to connect to Object Storage. See Selecting regions and endpoints for more information on the endpoints to use based on your Object Storage bucket type, such as regional versus cross- regional. You can also view the endpoints across regions for your Object Storage service by selecting the service on your IBM Cloud dashboard and clicking Endpoint in the navigation pane. Always choose the direct endpoint. Direct endpoint provide better performance and do not incur charges. An example of an endpoint for US-South Cross region is s3.direct.us.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud. Create a COS bucket(for example, source-bucket) to store sample data to be ingested into watsonx.data instance. For information about creating COS bucket see, Getting started with IBM Cloud Object Storage. Getting started with IBM Cloud Object Storage As a user of Object Storage, you not only need to know the API key or the HMAC keys to configure Object Storage, but also the IBM Analytics Engine service endpoints to connect to Object Storage. See Selecting regions and endpoints for more information on the endpoints to use based on your Object Storage bucket type, such as regional versus cross-regional. You can also view the endpoints across regions for your Object Storage service by selecting the service on your IBM Cloud dashboard and clicking Endpoint in the navigation pane. Always choose the direct endpoint. Direct endpoint provide better performance and do not incur charges. An example of an endpoint for US-South Cross region is s3.direct.us.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud. Selecting regions and endpoints Download sample csv file (for example, zipcodes.csv) and parquet sample data (for example, six months taxi data for year 2022) from the following links. Sample parquet file. Sample CSV file Download sample csv file (for example, zipcodes.csv) and parquet sample data (for example, six months taxi data for year 2022) from the following links. Sample parquet file. Sample parquet file Sample CSV file Sample
