IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Monitoring for watsonx.data Monitoring for watsonx.data Provide insight about your IBM® watsonx.data instance. View metrics on the health of key watsonx.data components such as the metastore and engine. Also, understand the usage of your instances by actively running tasks and queries. You can use the IBM Cloud Monitoring service to monitor your watsonx.data instance. watsonx.data forwards selected information about your instance to Monitoring so that you can monitor specific metrics such as cpu and memory utilization. Set up your watsonx.data service instance To set up Monitoring for watsonx.data, you must create a service instance and then enable Platform Metrics in the same region as the watsonx.data instance that you want to monitor. If you have deployments in more than one region, you must provision Monitoring and enable platform metrics for each region. To set up Monitoring, From the IBM Cloud navigation menu, select Observability. Select Monitoring. The Monitoring pane opens. Either use an existing Monitoring service instance or create a new one. After the instance is ready, enable platform metrics by clicking Configure platform metrics. Select a region and then a Monitoring instance from that region. If you have deployments in more than one region, you must provision Monitoring and enable platform metrics for each region. Accessing your IBM Cloud Monitoring metrics To see your IBM® watsonx.data customer metrics dashboards in Monitoring: From the IBM Cloud navigation menu, select Observability. Select Monitoring. Click Open Dashboard. Click Dashboards in the sidepane, open the IBM® watsonx.data dashboard to view your watsonx.data metrics. For more information, see Monitoring Getting started tutorial. Requesting Access Permission for Non-Operation User Go to the IBM Access Hub. Search HDM-Lakehouse-IBM-Cloud-Dev-IAM-2592207. Click the tile that appears. In Application Details window, click Modify. In Modify Access window, search for the icd:user:ops group. Click Add. Now you can access the Sysdig dashboard. Metrics available by Service Plan HMS health status Number of total running queries Number of total running tasks Number of total transactions List of currently available catalogs Presto health status Total number of active nodes Total number of inactive nodes Total number of nodes List of roles List of tables HMS health status Table 2: HMS Health Status metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_hms\_health Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Checks the status of Postgres DB connection in HMS pod. Number of total running queries Table 6: Number Of Total Running Queries metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_queries\_running\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Runs Query to get the total queries that are in Running state in Presto Server. Number of total running tasks Table 7: Number Of Total Running Tasks metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_tasks\_running\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Shows the data that is collected by name-value pair collection for tasks in Presto server and populates the tables in the database. Number of total transactions Table 8: Number Of Total Transactions metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_transactions\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Shows the data that is collected by name-value pair collection for transactions in Presto server and populates the tables in the database. List of currently available catalogs Table 3: List Of Currently Available Catalogs metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_catalogs Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Presto health status Table 9: Presto Health Status metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_presto\_health Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Tracks the heartbeat status by checking if the Presto server is running or not running. Total number of active nodes Table 10: Total Number Of Active Nodes metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_active\_nodes\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description The total number of active nodes in the Presto Co-ordinator Pod. Total number of inactive nodes Table 11: Total Number Of Inactive Nodes metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_inactive\_nodes\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description The total number of inactive nodes in the Presto Co-ordinator Pod. Total number of nodes Table 12: Total Number Of Nodes metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_nodes\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description The total number of nodes in the Presto Co-ordinator Pod. List of roles Table 4: List Of Roles metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_roles\_name Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group List of tables Table 5: List Of Tables metric metadata Metadata Description Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_table\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Attributes for segmentation Global attributes The following attributes are available for segmenting all of the metrics that are listed above. Table 13: Global attributes Attribute Attribute Name Attribute Description Cloud Type ibm\_ctype The cloud type is a value of public, dedicated, or local Location ibm\_location The location of the monitored resource - this can be a region, data center or global Resource ibm\_resource The resource being measured by the service - typically an indentifying name or GUID Resource Type ibm\_resource\_type The type of the resource being measured by the service Resource group ibm\_resource\_group\_name The resource group where the service instance was created Scope ibm\_scope The scope is the account, organization, or space GUID associated with this metric Service name ibm\_service\_name Name of the service generating this metric Additional attributes The following attributes are available for segmenting one or more attributes as described in the reference above. See the individual metrics for segmentation options. Table 14: Additional attributes Attribute Attribute Name Attribute Description Catalog in the Presto Server ibm\_watsonx\_data\_catalog Catalog in the Presto Server Catalog name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_catalog\_name Catalog name Resource role ibm\_watsonx\_data\_resource\_role Role in the resource group Role associated with Catalog ibm\_watsonx\_data\_catalog\_role Role associated with Catalog Schema in the Presto Server ibm\_watsonx\_data\_schema Schema in the Presto Server Service instance ibm\_service\_instance The service instance segment identifies the instance that the metric is associated with. Monitoring for watsonx.data Provide insight about your IBM® watsonx.data instance. View metrics on the health of key watsonx.data components such as the metastore and engine. Also, understand the usage of your instances by actively running tasks and queries. You can use the IBM Cloud Monitoring service to monitor your watsonx.data instance. watsonx.data forwards selected information about your instance to Monitoring so that you can monitor specific metrics such as cpu and memory utilization. Set up your watsonx.data service instance To set up Monitoring for watsonx.data, you must create a service instance and then enable Platform Metrics in the same region as the watsonx.data instance that you want to monitor. If you have deployments in more than one region, you must provision Monitoring and enable platform metrics for each region. To set up Monitoring, From the IBM Cloud navigation menu, select Observability. Select Monitoring. The Monitoring pane opens. Either use an existing Monitoring service instance or create a new one. After the instance is ready, enable platform metrics by clicking Configure platform metrics. Select a region and then a Monitoring instance from that region. If you have deployments in more than one region, you must provision Monitoring and enable platform metrics for each region. Accessing your IBM Cloud Monitoring metrics To see your IBM® watsonx.data customer metrics dashboards in Monitoring: From the IBM Cloud navigation menu, select Observability. Select Monitoring. Click Open Dashboard. Click Dashboards in the sidepane, open the IBM® watsonx.data dashboard to view your watsonx.data metrics. For more information, see Monitoring Getting started tutorial. Monitoring Getting started tutorial Requesting Access Permission for Non-Operation User Go to the IBM Access Hub. Go to the IBM Access Hub. IBM Access Hub Search HDM-Lakehouse-IBM- Cloud-Dev-IAM-2592207. Search HDM-Lakehouse-IBM-Cloud-Dev-IAM-2592207. Click the tile that appears. Click the tile that appears. In Application Details window, click Modify. In Application Details window, click Modify. In Modify Access window, search for the icd:user:ops group. In Modify Access window, search for the icd:user:ops group. Click Add. Now you can access the Sysdig dashboard. Click Add. Now you can access the Sysdig dashboard. Metrics available by Service Plan HMS health status HMS health status Number of total running queries Number of total running queries Number of total running tasks Number of total running tasks Number of total transactions Number of total transactions List of currently available catalogs List of currently available catalogs Presto health status Presto health status Total number of active nodes Total number of active nodes Total number of inactive nodes Total number of inactive nodes Total number of nodes Total number of nodes List of roles List of roles List of tables List of tables HMS health status Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_hms\_health Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Checks the status of Postgres DB connection in HMS pod. Number of total running queries Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_queries\_running\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Runs Query to get the total queries that are in Running state in Presto Server. Number of total running tasks Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_tasks\_running\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Shows the data that is collected by name-value pair collection for tasks in Presto server and populates the tables in the database. Number of total transactions Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_transactions\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Shows the data that is collected by name-value pair collection for transactions in Presto server and populates the tables in the database. List of currently available catalogs Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_catalogs Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Presto health status Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_presto\_health Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description Tracks the heartbeat status by checking if the Presto server is running or not running. Total number of active nodes Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_active\_nodes\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description The total number of active nodes in the Presto Co-ordinator Pod. Total number of inactive nodes Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_inactive\_nodes\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description The total number of inactive nodes in the Presto Co-ordinator Pod. Total number of nodes Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_nodes\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Metric Description The total number of nodes in the Presto Co-ordinator Pod. List of roles Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_roles\_name Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group List of tables Metric Name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_table\_total Metric Type gauge Value Type none Segment By Service Instance, Resource group Attributes for segmentation Global attributes The following attributes are available for segmenting all of the metrics that are listed above. Cloud Type ibm\_ctype The cloud type is a value of public, dedicated, or local Location ibm\_location The location of the monitored resource - this can be a region, data center or global Resource ibm\_resource The resource being measured by the service - typically an indentifying name or GUID Resource Type ibm\_resource\_type The type of the resource being measured by the service Resource group ibm\_resource\_group\_name The resource group where the service instance was created Scope ibm\_scope The scope is the account, organization, or space GUID associated with this metric Service name ibm\_service\_name Name of the service generating this metric Additional attributes The following attributes are available for segmenting one or more attributes as described in the reference above. See the individual metrics for segmentation options. Catalog in the Presto Server ibm\_watsonx\_data\_catalog Catalog in the Presto Server Catalog name ibm\_watsonx\_data\_catalog\_name Catalog name Resource role ibm\_watsonx\_data\_resource\_role Role in the resource group Role associated with Catalog ibm\_watsonx\_data\_catalog\_role Role associated with Catalog Schema in the Presto Server ibm\_watsonx\_data\_schema Schema in the Presto Server Service instance ibm\_service\_instance The service instance segment identifies the instance that the metric is associated with.
