IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Query history Query history A query history audits all the current and past queries across the existing engines in IBM® watsonx.data. The query history page in watsonx.data provides the following details that are related to the queries that are run: Query ID Query State Engine User Created In the Query history page, you can search, refresh, filter, download, and customize the queries. You can select a Query from the page, view or copy the details of query statement, logical execution plan, distributed execution plan, and explain analyze. You can open the queries directly in a workspace, and also get the explain details of a query from the overflow menu of each query listed. For more information about exporting and importing query history, see Exporting and importing the query history. Query history A query history audits all the current and past queries across the existing engines in IBM® watsonx.data. The query history page in watsonx.data provides the following details that are related to the queries that are run: Query ID Query State Engine User Created In the Query history page, you can search, refresh, filter, download, and customize the queries. You can select a Query from the page, view or copy the details of query statement, logical execution plan, distributed execution plan, and explain analyze. You can open the queries directly in a workspace, and also get the explain details of a query from the overflow menu of each query listed. For more information about exporting and importing query history, see Exporting and importing the query history. Exporting and importing the query history
