IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Getting started with your query engine Getting started with your query engine After successfully provisioning the Presto engine, kickstart your watsonx.data experience by exploring the capabilities of Presto by running test queries, creating your first schema, and tables. In this tutorial, you learn to execute some test queries to understand the capabilities of Presto and create your first schema to establish a foundational structure for organizing your data. When your schema is in place, you can proceed to create your table. Tables are essential components for storing and organizing data. Sample Scenario : To understand: Querying tables by using Presto in watsonx.data About the data available for kick start To learn how to create schemas and tables to store, organize and query data. Objective Running test queries Creating your first schema and table Before you begin This tutorial requires: Subscribe to watsonx.data on IBM Cloud. Provision your watsonx.data instance. For more information, see Provision an instance. Running test queries This section of the tutorial describes how to use the Query workspace, and run test queries to familiarize with the working of the Presto engine. To run the SQL query, do the following steps: From the navigation menu, select SQL. The Query workspace page opens. Select the Presto engine from the Engine list. Go to System and benchmarking data. watsonx.data provides default catalogs tpcds, and tpch. These catalogs provide auto-generated data for benchmarking. You can also use it for running sample queries and data. Select a schema from the tpch catalog (for example, Tiny) and then select a table, for example, Customer. Click the overflow menu to select Generate Path, or Generate SELECT. Select Generate Select and select a limit, for example 100. Click Run on to run the query. Select the Result set or Details tab to view the results. If required, you can save the query. Saving data From the navigation menu, select Data manager. The Data manager page opens. Select the iceberg\_data catalog. The catalog is available by default. Click Create. Select Create schema to create a schema under the iceberg\_data catalog. For more information, see Creating schema. Give your schema a name, for example new\_schema. To store data, you must create tables inside the schema. Use one of the following options to create a table: Option 1: You can create a table (with the default data that is available in the tpcds catalog) by running an SQL query. a. Go to the Query workspace page. b. Run Create table query. A sample query is shown: CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "iceberg\_data"."new\_schema"."new\_table" AS SELECT \* FROM "tpcds"."sf1"."catalog\_returns" LIMIT 100; The SQL query creates a table named, new\_table by using new\_schema, within the iceberg\_data catalog. It also loads data from the catalog\_returns table, which uses the sf1 schema in the tpcds catalog. You can go to the iceberg\_data catalog and run a select query statement to verify if new\_table has data in it. Option 2: You can create a table by uploading your own data (.csv, parquet, .json, .txt format). a. Go to the Data manager page. b. You can create table with your data in .csv, parquet, .json, .txt formats. To do that, see Creating table. You can go to the Query workspace page. Select the newly created table from the iceberg\_data catalog and run a select query statement to verify if the table has data in it. Querying data from the table created You can run a Generate SELECT query from the new table that is created within the iceberg\_data catalog. To do that: From the navigation menu, go to the Query workspace page. Select the table, new\_table within the schema, new\_schemainside the catalog iceberg\_data. Select Generate SELECT. Edit the limit to 100 as shown in the example: SELECT \* FROM "iceberg\_data"."new\_schema"."new\_table" LIMIT 100; Click the Run on to run the query. Select the Result set or Details tab to view the results. You can also save the query. Getting started with your query engine After successfully provisioning the Presto engine, kickstart your watsonx.data experience by exploring the capabilities of Presto by running test queries, creating your first schema, and tables. In this tutorial, you learn to execute some test queries to understand the capabilities of Presto and create your first schema to establish a foundational structure for organizing your data. When your schema is in place, you can proceed to create your table. Tables are essential components for storing and organizing data. Sample Scenario : To understand: Querying tables by using Presto in watsonx.data About the data available for kick start To learn how to create schemas and tables to store, organize and query data. Objective Running test queries Creating your first schema and table Before you begin This tutorial requires: Subscribe to watsonx.data on IBM Cloud. Provision your watsonx.data instance. For more information, see Provision an instance. Provision an instance Running test queries This section of the tutorial describes how to use the Query workspace, and run test queries to familiarize with the working of the Presto engine. To run the SQL query, do the following steps: From the navigation menu, select SQL. The Query workspace page opens. Select the Presto engine from the Engine list. Go to System and benchmarking data. watsonx.data provides default catalogs tpcds, and tpch. These catalogs provide auto-generated data for benchmarking. You can also use it for running sample queries and data. Select a schema from the tpch catalog (for example, Tiny) and then select a table, for example, Customer. Click the overflow menu to select Generate Path, or Generate SELECT. Select Generate Select and select a limit, for example 100. Click Run on to run the query. Select the Result set or Details tab to view the results. If required, you can save the query. Saving data From the navigation menu, select Data manager. The Data manager page opens. Select the iceberg\_data catalog. The catalog is available by default. Click Create. Select Create schema to create a schema under the iceberg\_data catalog. For more information, see Creating schema. Creating schema Give your schema a name, for example new\_schema. To store data, you must create tables inside the schema. Use one of the following options to create a table: Option 1: You can create a table (with the default data that is available in the tpcds catalog) by running an SQL query. a. Go to the Query workspace page. b. Run Create table query. A sample query is shown: CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "iceberg\_data"."new\_schema"."new\_table" AS SELECT \* FROM "tpcds"."sf1"."catalog\_returns" LIMIT 100; The SQL query creates a table named, new\_table by using new\_schema, within the iceberg\_data catalog. It also loads data from the catalog\_returns table, which uses the sf1 schema in the tpcds catalog. You can go to the iceberg\_data catalog and run a select query statement to verify if new\_table has data in it. Option 1: You can create a table (with the default data that is available in the tpcds catalog) by running an SQL query. a. Go to the Query workspace page. b. Run Create table query. A sample query is shown: The SQL query creates a table named, new\_table by using new\_schema, within the iceberg\_data catalog. It also loads data from the catalog\_returns table, which uses the sf1 schema in the tpcds catalog. You can go to the iceberg\_data catalog and run a select query statement to verify if new\_table has data in it. Option 2: You can create a table by uploading your own data (.csv, parquet, .json, .txt format). a. Go to the Data manager page. b. You can create table with your data in .csv, parquet, .json, .txt formats. To do that, see Creating table. You can go to the Query workspace page. Select the newly created table from the iceberg\_data catalog and run a select query statement to verify if the table has data in it. Option 2: You can create a table by uploading your own data (.csv, parquet, .json, .txt format). a. Go to the Data manager page. b. You can create table with your data in .csv, parquet, .json, .txt formats. To do that, see Creating table. Creating table You can go to the Query workspace page. Select the newly created table from the iceberg\_data catalog and run a select query statement to verify if the table has data in it. Querying data from the table created You can run a Generate SELECT query from the new table that is created within the iceberg\_data catalog. To do that: From the navigation menu, go to the Query workspace page. Select the table, new\_table within the schema, new\_schemainside the catalog iceberg\_data. Select Generate SELECT. Edit the limit to 100 as shown in the example: SELECT \* FROM "iceberg\_data"."new\_schema"."new\_table" LIMIT 100; Click the Run on to run the query. Select the Result set or

Details tab to view the results. You can also save the query.
