IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Logging for watsonx.data Logging for watsonx.data After you provision IBM Log Analysis to add log management capabilities to your IBM Cloud architecture, you can enable platform logs to view and analyze IBM® watsonx.data logs. Platform logs Platform logs are logs that are exposed by logging-enabled services and the platform in IBM Cloud. Configure a Log Analysis instance in a region to monitor these logs. For more information, see Configuring IBM Cloud platform logs. Viewing logs watsonx.data instances generate platform logs in the same region where they are available. You can view, monitor, and manage logs through the IBM Log Analysis instance that is marked as platform logs in the region. To launch the Log Analysis web UI to view these logs, see Navigating to the web UI. For more information about the locations where watsonx.data logs are available, see Service locations. Log field records The following table describes the log records that are generated by the watsonx.data service Table 1. Log field records Field Description logSourceCRN watsonx.data instance CRN from which the log is published. messageID ID that indicates the type of log message. saveServiceCopy Defines whether IBM saves a copy of the record for operational purposes. message Description of the log that is generated. ts Timestamp of the log that is generated. level Severity level of the log. app Internal application from where the log is generated. caller Internal caller that generates the log. Log messages The following table describes a few example log messages that are generated by the watsonx.data service Table 2. Log messages Message ID Description lakehouse.0012E Engine creation request is failed. lakehouse.3001I Metastore is started. lakehouse.1041I Engine user is created successfully. lakehouse.0612E Table deletion request is failed. Logging for watsonx.data After you provision IBM Log Analysis to add log management capabilities to your IBM Cloud architecture, you can enable platform logs to view and analyze IBM® watsonx.data logs. Platform logs Platform logs are logs that are exposed by logging-enabled services and the platform in IBM Cloud. Configure a Log Analysis instance in a region to monitor these logs. For more information, see Configuring IBM Cloud platform logs. Configuring IBM Cloud platform logs Viewing logs watsonx.data instances generate platform logs in the same region where they are available. You can view, monitor, and manage logs through the IBM Log Analysis instance that is marked as platform logs in the region. To launch the Log Analysis web UI to view these logs, see Navigating to the web UI. Navigating to the web UI For more information about the locations where watsonx.data logs are available, see Service locations. Service locations Log field records The following table describes the log records that are generated by the watsonx.data service logSourceCRN watsonx.data instance CRN from which the log is published. messageID ID that indicates the type of log message. saveServiceCopy Defines whether IBM saves a copy of the record for operational purposes. message Description of the log that is generated. ts Timestamp of the log that is generated. level Severity level of the log. app Internal application from where the log is generated. caller Internal caller that generates the log. Log messages The following table describes a few example log messages that are generated by the watsonx.data service lakehouse.0012E Engine creation request is failed. lakehouse.3001I Metastore is started. lakehouse.1041I Engine user is created successfully. lakehouse.0612E Table deletion request is failed.
