IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Auditing events for watsonx.data Auditing events for watsonx.data As a security officer, auditor, or manager, you can use the IBM Cloud® Activity Tracker service to track how users and applications interact with the IBM® watsonx.data service in IBM Cloud. IBM Cloud Activity Tracker records user-initiated activities that change the state of a service in IBM Cloud. You can use this service to investigate abnormal activity and critical actions and to comply with regulatory audit requirements. In addition, you can be alerted about actions as they happen. The events that are collected comply with the Cloud Auditing Data Federation (CADF) standard. For more information, see the getting started tutorial for IBM Cloud Activity Tracker. List of platform events The following table lists the actions that generate an event: Table 1. Actions that generate platform events Action Description lakehouse.lakehouse.create An event is generated when you provision a service instance. lakehouse.presto.create An event is generated when you provision a Presto group. lakehouse.hms.create An event is generated when you provision a metastore. lakehouse.lakehouse.delete An event is generated when a service instance is deleted. lakehouse.presto.delete An event is generated when a when a Presto group is deleted. lakehouse.hms.delete An event is generated when a metastore is deleted. Events for engines Table 2. Lists of engine events Action Description lakehouse.engines.create An event is generated when you create an engine. lakehouse.engines.get An event is generated when you get engines. lakehouse.engines.update An event is generated when you update an engine. lakehouse.engines.delete An event is generated when you delete an engine. lakehouse.engines.pause An event is generated when you pause an engine. lakehouse.engines.resume An event is generated when you resume an engine. Events for buckets Table 3. Lists of bucket events Action Description lakehouse.buckets.create An event is generated when you create a bucket. lakehouse.buckets.get An event is generated when you get buckets. lakehouse.buckets.update An event is generated when you update a bucket. lakehouse.buckets.delete An event is generated when you delete a bucket. lakehouse.buckets.activate An event is generated when you activate a bucket. Events for catalogs Table 1. Lists of catalog events Action Description lakehouse.catalogs.create An event is generated when you create a catalog. lakehouse.catalogs.get An event is generated when you get catalogs. lakehouse.catalogs.update An event is generated when you update a catalog. lakehouse.catalogs.delete An event is generated when you delete a catalog. Events for databases Table 4. Lists of database events Action Description lakehouse.databases.create An event is generated when you create a database. lakehouse.databases.get An event is generated when you get databases. lakehouse.databases.update An event is generated when you update a database. lakehouse.databases.delete An event is generated when you delete a database. Events for authentication Table 5. Lists of events for authentication Action Description lakehouse.authtoken.create An event is generated when a user logs in. lakehouse.authtoken.delete An event is generated when a user logs out. Events for engine users Table 6. Lists of engine user events Action Description lakehouse.engineusers.create An event is generated when you create an engine user. lakehouse.engineusers.update An event is generated when you update an engine user. lakehouse.engineusers.delete An event is generated when you delete an engine user. Events for bucket users Table 7. Lists of bucket user events Action Description lakehouse.bucketusers.create An event is generated when you create a bucket user. lakehouse.bucketusers.update An event is generated when you update a bucket user. lakehouse.bucketusers.delete An event is generated when you delete a bucket user. Events for catalog users Table 8. Lists of catalog user events Action Description lakehouse.catalogusers.create An event is generated when you create a catalog user. lakehouse.catalogusers.update An event is generated when you update a catalog user. lakehouse.catalogusers.delete An event is generated when you delete a catalog user. Events for database connection users Table 9. Lists of database connection user events Action Description lakehouse.dbconnusers.create An event is generated when you create a database connection user. lakehouse.dbconnusers.update An event is generated when you update a database connection user. lakehouse.dbconnusers.delete An event is generated when you delete a database connection user. Events for metastore users Table 10. Lists of metastore user events Action Description lakehouse.metastoreusers.create An event is generated when you create a metastore user. lakehouse.metastoreusers.update An event is generated when you update a metastore user. lakehouse.metastoreusers.delete An event is generated when you delete a metastore user. Events for data policy Table 11. Lists of data policy events Action Description lakehouse.datapolicy.create An event is generated when you create a data policy. lakehouse.datapolicy.update An event is generated when you update a data policy. lakehouse.datapolicy.delete An event is generated when you delete a data policy. Auditing events for watsonx.data As a security officer, auditor, or manager, you can use the IBM Cloud® Activity Tracker service to track how users and applications interact with the IBM® watsonx.data service in IBM Cloud. IBM Cloud Activity Tracker records user-initiated activities that change the state of a service in IBM Cloud. You can use this service to investigate abnormal activity and critical actions and to comply with regulatory audit requirements. In addition, you can be alerted about actions as they happen. The events that are collected comply with the Cloud Auditing Data Federation (CADF) standard. For more information, see the getting started tutorial for IBM Cloud Activity Tracker. getting started tutorial for IBM Cloud Activity Tracker List of platform events The following table lists the actions that generate an event: lakehouse.lakehouse.create An event is generated when you provision a service instance. lakehouse.presto.create An event is generated when you provision a Presto group. lakehouse.hms.create An event is generated when you provision a metastore. lakehouse.lakehouse.delete An event is generated when a service instance is deleted. lakehouse.presto.delete An event is generated when a when a Presto group is deleted. lakehouse.hms.delete An event is generated when a metastore is deleted. Events for engines lakehouse.engines.create An event is generated when you create an engine. lakehouse.engines.get An event is generated when you get engines. lakehouse.engines.update An event is generated when you update an engine. lakehouse.engines.delete An event is generated when you delete an engine. lakehouse.engines.pause An event is generated when you pause an engine. lakehouse.engines.resume An event is generated when you resume an engine. Events for buckets lakehouse.buckets.create An event is generated when you create a bucket. lakehouse.buckets.get An event is generated when you get buckets. lakehouse.buckets.update An event is generated when you update a bucket. lakehouse.buckets.delete An event is generated when you delete a bucket. lakehouse.buckets.activate An event is generated when you activate a bucket. Events for catalogs lakehouse.catalogs.create An event is generated when you create a catalog. lakehouse.catalogs.get An event is generated when you get catalogs. lakehouse.catalogs.update An event is generated when you update a catalog. lakehouse.catalogs.delete An event is generated when you delete a catalog. Events for databases lakehouse.databases.create An event is generated when you create a database. lakehouse.databases.get An event is generated when you get databases. lakehouse.databases.update An event is generated when you update a database. lakehouse.databases.delete An event is generated when you delete a database. Events for authentication lakehouse.authtoken.create An event is generated when a user logs in. lakehouse.authtoken.delete An event is generated when a user logs out. Events for engine users lakehouse.engineusers.create An event is generated when you create an engine user. lakehouse.engineusers.update An event is generated when you update an engine user. lakehouse.engineusers.delete An event is generated when you delete an engine user. Events for bucket users lakehouse.bucketusers.create An event is generated when you create a bucket user. lakehouse.bucketusers.update An event is generated when you update a bucket user. lakehouse.bucketusers.delete An event is generated when you delete a bucket user. Events for catalog users lakehouse.catalogusers.create An event is generated when you create a catalog user. lakehouse.catalogusers.update An event is generated when you update a catalog user. lakehouse.catalogusers.delete An event is generated when you delete a catalog user. Events for database connection users lakehouse.dbconnusers.create An event is generated when you create a database connection user. lakehouse.dbconnusers.update An event is generated when you update a database connection user. lakehouse.dbconnusers.delete An event is generated when you delete a database connection user. Events for metastore users lakehouse.metastoreusers.create An event is generated when you create a metastore user. lakehouse.metastoreusers.update An event is generated when you update a metastore user. lakehouse.metastoreusers.delete An event is generated when you delete a metastore user. Events for data policy lakehouse.datapolicy.create An event is generated when you create a data policy. lakehouse.datapolicy.update An event is generated when you update a data policy. lakehouse.datapolicy.delete An event is generated when you delete a data policy.
