IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Getting started with the web console Getting started with the web console If you are logging in to watsonx.data instance for the first time, you will be presented with a quick start wizard. For details about the wizard, see the Quick start watsonx.data console. To start IBM® watsonx.data web console, complete the following steps: Log in to your IBM Cloud Account. Go to Resource list > Databases. Click your IBM® watsonx.data instance link. The service instance page opens. Click Open web console to load the home page. The home page provides information about the logged in user, the login timestamp, and region where the watsonx.data is created. From the home page, you can go to the Infrastructure manager page where you can design your watsonx.data by provisioning engines, services, buckets, and databases. You can also go to the Query workspace to create SQL queries to query your data. The home page also shows alerts about your infrastructure and active queries. Getting started with the web console If you are logging in to watsonx.data instance for the first time, you will be presented with a quick start wizard. For details about the wizard, see the Quick start watsonx.data console. Quick start watsonx.data console To start IBM® watsonx.data web console, complete the following steps: Log in to your IBM Cloud Account. Go to Resource list > Databases. Click your IBM® watsonx.data instance link. The service instance page opens. Click Open web console to load the home page. The home page provides information about the logged in user, the login timestamp, and region where the watsonx.data is created. From the home page, you can go to the Infrastructure manager page where you can design your watsonx.data by provisioning engines, services, buckets, and databases. You can also go to the Query workspace to create SQL queries to query your data. The home page also shows alerts about your infrastructure and active queries.
