IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error watsonx.data Lite plan watsonx.data Lite plan The Lite plan allows you to provision an IBM® watsonx.data instance that is free to use, with limits on capacity (2000 Resource Units), and features for a time frame of 30 days. You can use the account to explore and familiarize yourself with watsonx.data. For more information about the features and limitations of Lite plan, see Lite plan. When the allocated Resource Units or time runs out, the instance becomes inactive and you can no longer access it. To access all the features and functionalities without resource or time limit, you must have an Enterprise watsonx.data instance in a paid IBM Cloud account. In this tutorial, you learn how to provision watsonx.data instance (lite plan) and explore its features. Before you begin To provision watsonx.data Lite plan instance, you must have a trial account (or a paid account) on the IBM Cloud. IBM Cloud trial accounts can have only one resource group. To create an IBM Cloud trial account, see Trial account. Provisioning watsonx.data Lite plan To provision a Lite plan instance, see Provisioning watsonx.data Lite plan. Viewing usage You can monitor the Resource Units usage level. For the Lite plan, in the watsonx.data UI, Billing section, you can view a widget that displays the Resource Unit consumption. If the allocated Resource Units or time runs out, your Lite instance will be suspended. You can still launch the IBM Cloud instance however, cannot use it. You can manually delete your IBM Cloud Lite instance by following the steps: Log in to your IBM Cloud account. Click Resource list. The list of resources appears. In Resource list, expand Databases. To delete an instance, click the overflow menu icon at the end of the row and click Delete. A delete confirmation dialog is displayed. Click Delete. For more information to manually delete an instance, see Deleting instance. Getting started with watsonx.data The Lite plan usage consumption starts when you complete quickstart. The resource units (RU) are consumed even when the watsonx.data instance is not being used. However, RU consumption reduces if you pause or delete the engine. Therefore, pause the engines and services when not in use, to maximize the IBM Cloud Lite plan availability. To simplify the steps, when you log in to the watsonx.data web console for the first time, you are directly presented with the quick start wizard Summary page. In the Summary page, review the configurations before you finish setting up your data infrastructure. You can also navigate to the previous pages by using the Back button and edit the details. For more information, see Quick start watsonx.data console. Click Finish and go. This displays the Infrastructure manager page. In the Infrastructure manager page, you can view the engine (Presto), and already provisioned bucket and catalogs. You can add single Starter sized Milvus service, small sized Spark engine, additional buckets and catalogs from the Add Components list. You cannot scale the existing engine or service or add a new engine (or service). To add a new engine or service, you must delete the existing engine or service. You can add only one Presto engine, Spark engine (single node, small size - 8 vCPU, 32GB node) and Milvus service (Milvus with size specification, Starter - 1 Million vectors, Index Parameters - 64, Segment size (1024)). To understand the restrictions, see Lite plan features and restrictions. Adding your storage and querying data For more information about how to add a storage that you own and explore how the watsonx.data service interacts with the data you bring in, see Adding your storage and querying data Saving data from a lite plan to an enterprise plan When the allocated Resource Units or time expires, the instance becomes inactive and you can no longer access it. If you choose to continue using watsonx.data by creating an Enterprise watsonx.data instance, you can save the data from your lite plan to the enterprise plan. To do that, you need an IBM Cloud Object Store (COS) bucket to connect to your lite plan instance of watsonx.data. You can then write data to that COS bucket you own. Then, create an enterprise instance of watsonx.data, connect it to the same COS bucket that you own to keep working with the same data files. Create a COS bucket to store data from the Lite plan. For more information, see Create buckets to store data. Ingest data from Lite plan instance to the COS bucket. For more information, see Adding the storage that you own and ingesting data. Either before or after your lite plan has concluded, create an enterprise plan instance. For more information, see Enterprise plan. Go to the Quick start watsonx.data console > Configure bucket page, specify the COS bucket details that you own (which stores data from the Lite plan). For more information, see Quick start watsonx.data console. When the setup is complete, the watsonx.data home page (enterprise plan) opens. From the navigation menu, select Data manager to view the COS storage bucket with data from the lite plan. watsonx.data Lite plan The Lite plan allows you to provision an IBM® watsonx.data instance that is free to use, with limits on capacity (2000 Resource Units), and features for a time frame of 30 days. You can use the account to explore and familiarize yourself with watsonx.data. For more information about the features and limitations of Lite plan, see Lite plan. Lite plan When the allocated Resource Units or time runs out, the instance becomes inactive and you can no longer access it. To access all the features and functionalities without resource or time limit, you must have an Enterprise watsonx.data instance in a paid IBM Cloud account. Enterprise watsonx.data instance In this tutorial, you learn how to provision watsonx.data instance (lite plan) and explore its features. Before you begin To provision watsonx.data Lite plan instance, you must have a trial account (or a paid account) on the IBM Cloud. IBM Cloud trial accounts can have only one resource group. To create an IBM Cloud trial account, see Trial account. Trial account Provisioning watsonx.data Lite plan To provision a Lite plan instance, see Provisioning watsonx.data Lite plan. Provisioning watsonx.data Lite plan Viewing usage You can monitor the Resource Units usage level. For the Lite plan, in the watsonx.data UI, Billing section, you can view a widget that displays the Resource Unit consumption. For the Lite plan, in the watsonx.data UI, Billing section, you can view a widget that displays the Resource Unit consumption. If the allocated Resource Units or time runs out, your Lite instance will be suspended. You can still launch the IBM Cloud instance however, cannot use it. You can manually delete your IBM Cloud Lite instance by following the steps: Log in to your IBM Cloud account. Click Resource list. The list of resources appears. In Resource list, expand Databases. To delete an instance, click the overflow menu icon at the end of the row and click Delete. A delete confirmation dialog is displayed. Click Delete. For more information to manually delete an instance, see Deleting instance. If the allocated Resource Units or time runs out, your Lite instance will be suspended. You can still launch the IBM Cloud instance however, cannot use it. You can manually delete your IBM Cloud Lite instance by following the steps: Log in to your IBM Cloud account. Click Resource list. The list of resources appears. In Resource list, expand Databases. To delete an instance, click the overflow menu icon at the end of the row and click Delete. A delete confirmation dialog is displayed. Click Delete. For more information to manually delete an instance, see Deleting instance. Deleting instance Getting started with watsonx.data The Lite plan usage consumption starts when you complete quickstart. The resource units (RU) are consumed even when the watsonx.data instance is not being used. However, RU consumption reduces if you pause or delete the engine. Therefore, pause the engines and services when not in use, to maximize the IBM Cloud Lite plan availability. To simplify the steps, when you log in to the watsonx.data web console for the first time, you are directly presented with the quick start wizard Summary page. In the Summary page, review the configurations before you finish setting up your data infrastructure. You can also navigate to the previous pages by using the Back button and edit the details. For more information, see Quick start watsonx.data console. In the Summary page, review the configurations before you finish setting up your data infrastructure. You can also navigate to the previous pages by using the Back button and edit the details. For more information, see Quick start watsonx.data console. Quick start watsonx.data console Click Finish and go. This displays the Infrastructure manager page. Click Finish and go. This displays the Infrastructure manager page. In the Infrastructure manager page, you can view the engine (Presto), and already provisioned bucket and catalogs. You can add single Starter sized Milvus service, small sized Spark engine, additional buckets and catalogs from the Add Components list. In the Infrastructure manager page, you can view the engine (Presto), and already provisioned bucket and catalogs. You can add single Starter sized Milvus service, small sized Spark engine, additional buckets and catalogs from the Add Components list. You cannot scale the existing engine or service or add a new engine (or service). To add a new engine or service, you must delete the existing engine or service. You can add only one Presto engine, Spark engine (single node, small size - 8 vCPU, 32GB node) and Milvus service (Milvus with size specification, Starter - 1 Million vectors, Index Parameters - 64, Segment size (1024)). To understand the restrictions, see Lite plan features and restrictions. Lite plan features and restrictions Adding your storage and querying data For more information about how to add a storage that you own and explore how the watsonx.data service interacts with the data you bring in, see Adding your storage and querying data Adding your storage and querying data Saving data from a lite plan to an enterprise plan When the allocated Resource Units or time expires, the instance becomes inactive and you can no longer access it. If you choose to continue using watsonx.data by creating an Enterprise watsonx.data instance, you can save the data from your lite plan to the enterprise plan. To do that, you need an IBM Cloud Object Store (COS) bucket to connect to your lite plan instance of watsonx.data. You can then write data to that COS bucket you own. Then, create an enterprise instance of watsonx.data, connect it to the same COS bucket that you own to keep working with the same data files. Create a COS bucket to store data from the Lite plan. For more information, see Create buckets to store data. Create a COS bucket to store data from the Lite plan. For more information, see Create buckets to store data. Create buckets to store data Ingest data from Lite plan instance to the COS bucket. For more information, see Adding the storage that you own and ingesting data. Ingest data from Lite plan instance to the COS bucket. For more information, see Adding the storage that you own and ingesting data. Adding the storage that you own and ingesting data Either before or after your lite plan has concluded, create an enterprise plan instance. For more information, see Enterprise plan. Either before or after your lite plan has concluded, create an enterprise plan instance. For more information, see Enterprise plan. Enterprise plan Go to the Quick start watsonx.data console > Configure bucket page, specify the COS bucket details that you own (which stores data from the Lite plan). For more information, see Quick start watsonx.data console. Go to the Quick start watsonx.data console > Configure bucket page, specify the COS bucket details that you own (which stores data from the Lite plan). For more information, see Quick start watsonx.data console. Quick start watsonx.data console When the setup is complete, the watsonx.data home page (enterprise plan) opens. From the navigation menu, select Data manager to view the COS storage bucket with data from the lite plan.
