IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Associating a catalog with an engine Associating a catalog with an engine To associate a catalog with an engine, use one of the following methods: Associating a catalog with an engine in list view Click the overflow menu and then click Manage associations. In Manage associations window, select the engine with which you want to associate the catalog. Click Save and restart engine. Associating a catalog with an engine in topology view Hover over the catalog that you want to associate with an engine and click the Manage associations icon. In Manage associations window, select the engine with which you want to associate the catalog. Click Save and restart engine. Associating a catalog with an engine To associate a catalog with an engine, use one of the following methods: Associating a catalog with an engine in list view Click the overflow menu and then click Manage associations. Click the overflow menu and then click Manage associations. In Manage associations window, select the engine with which you want to associate the catalog. In Manage associations window, select the engine with which you want to associate the catalog. Click Save and restart engine. Click Save and restart engine. Associating a catalog with an engine in topology view Hover over the catalog that you want to associate with an engine and click the Manage associations icon. Hover over the catalog that you want to associate with an engine and click the Manage associations icon. In Manage associations window, select the engine with which you want to associate the catalog. In Manage associations window, select the engine with which you want to associate the catalog. Click Save and restart engine. Click Save and restart engine.
