IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Managing notifications Managing notifications You can subscribe to IBM® watsonx.data announcements and status information on IBM Cloud. Subscribing to IBM Cloud platform related notifications You can choose to receive email notifications about IBM Cloud platform-related items, such as announcements, billing and usage, additional notification preferences, and ordering from the Notifications page. You can also update your preferences to receive email notifications about resource-related items, such as incidents, maintenance, security bulletins, or resource activity on the Notification preferences page. These notifications are for only the resources in use. You can find details about major incidents that affect the IBM Cloud® platform and services from the IBM Cloud Status page page. Subscribing to watsonx.data event notifications You can get notified about critial events that occur in watsonx.data service by subscribing to instance specific event notifications. For more information, see Event notifications. Managing notifications You can subscribe to IBM® watsonx.data announcements and status information on IBM Cloud. Subscribing to IBM Cloud platform related notifications You can choose to receive email notifications about IBM Cloud platform-related items, such as announcements, billing and usage, additional notification preferences, and ordering from the Notifications page. Notifications page You can also update your preferences to receive email notifications about resource-related items, such as incidents, maintenance, security bulletins, or resource activity on the Notification preferences page. These notifications are for only the resources in use. You can find details about major incidents that affect the IBM Cloud® platform and services from the IBM Cloud Status page page. Status page Subscribing to watsonx.data event notifications You can get notified about critial events that occur in watsonx.data service by subscribing to instance specific event notifications. For more information, see Event notifications. Event notifications
