IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Presto update process for watsonx.data Presto update process for watsonx.data IBM® watsonx.data is a managed service with regular release updates occurring as part of standard operations. The upgrade process is designed to ensure that any outage is kept to a minimum. Your applications must be designed to handle temporary interruptions to the service by implementing the following: error handling for failed commands retry logic to recover from a temporary interruption If a Presto coordinator node restarts on update, applications must re-establish connection with the Presto engine. Before updates begin and after the new version becomes available, the latest version can be tested. A new Presto engine can be provisioned from the infrastructure manager within your watsonx.data instance, which uses the latest version thereby ensuring that all applications work seamlessly with the new version. Applications can then be migrated to the new engine at your convenience, allowing better control of the update. For more information, see Creating an engine. Presto update process for watsonx.data IBM® watsonx.data is a managed service with regular release updates occurring as part of standard operations. The upgrade process is designed to ensure that any outage is kept to a minimum. Your applications must be designed to handle temporary interruptions to the service by implementing the following: error handling for failed commands retry logic to recover from a temporary interruption If a Presto coordinator node restarts on update, applications must re-establish connection with the Presto engine. Before updates begin and after the new version becomes available, the latest version can be tested. A new Presto engine can be provisioned from the infrastructure manager within your watsonx.data instance, which uses the latest version thereby ensuring that all applications work seamlessly with the new version. Applications can then be migrated to the new engine at your convenience, allowing better control of the update. For more information, see Creating an engine. Creating an engine
