IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Editing database details Editing database details To edit the display name, description, and tags of a database, use one of the following methods: Editing database details in list view Click the name of database. The database information page opens. In the Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the name to be displayed. In the Description field, enter the description of the database or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save. Editing database details in topology view Click the database. The database information page opens. In the Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the name to be displayed. In the Description field, enter the description of the database or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save. Editing database details To edit the display name, description, and tags of a database, use one of the following methods: Editing database details in list view Click the name of database. The database information page opens. In the Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the name to be displayed. In the Description field, enter the description of the database or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save. Editing database details in topology view Click the database. The database information page opens. In the Details tab, click Edit. In the Display name field, enter the name to be displayed. In the Description field, enter the description of the database or edit the existing description. In the Tags field, select the tags from list or start typing to define a new tag. Click Save.
