IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Enabling event notifications for watsonx.data Enabling event notifications for watsonx.data As an administrator of watsonx.data, you might want to send notifications of events in watsonx.data to other users, or human destinations, by using email, SMS, or other supported delivery channels. Additionally, you might want to send these notifications of events to other applications to build logic by using event-driven programming using webhooks, for example. This is made possible by the integration between watsonx.data and IBM Cloud® Event Notifications. To send information to Event Notifications, you must connect your watsonx.data instance to Event Notifications. For more information about working with Event Notifications, see Getting started with Event Notifications. How events are collected and sent by watsonx.data When an event of interest takes place in your watsonx.data instance, watsonx.data communicates with a connected Event Notifications instance to forward a notification to a supported destination. Events for watsonx.data The following table lists the watsonx.data events. Table 1. Actions that generate event notifications Event name Event type Event subtype Description Severity level Lakehouse Storage Capacity com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.storage\_capacity storage\_capacity\_warning An event is generated when the storage capacity reaches warning levels Medium Lakehouse Storage Capacity com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.storage\_capacity storage\_capacity\_error An event is generated when the storage capacity reaches error levels High Lakehouse Presto Group com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.presto\_group presto\_group\_unavailable An event is generated when the Presto group is unavailable due to an unexpected outage High Lakehouse Presto Group com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.presto\_group presto\_group\_available An event is generated when the Presto group is available Low Lakehouse Metastore com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.metastore metastore\_unavailable An event is generated when the metastore is unavailable due to an unexpected outage High Lakehouse Metastore com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.metastore metastore\_available An event is generated when the metastore is available Low Enabling notifications Events that are generated by an instance of the watsonx.data service can be forwarded to an Event Notifications service instance that is available in the same account. You can configure only one watsonx.data instance to one Event Notifications service instance. Delivering notifications to select destinations After you enable notifications for watsonx.data, create topics and subscriptions in Event Notifications so that alerts can be forwarded and delivered to your selected destinations. For a complete list of supported destinations, see the Event Notifications documentation. Email notifications You can use the IBM Cloud email service as a delivery channel for watsonx.data event notifications. Create an Event Notifications subscription between an existing topic and the IBM Cloud email service to forward your alerts to various recipients by email. Enabling event notifications for watsonx.data As an administrator of watsonx.data, you might want to send notifications of events in watsonx.data to other users, or human destinations, by using email, SMS, or other supported delivery channels. Additionally, you might want to send these notifications of events to other applications to build logic by using event-driven programming using webhooks, for example. This is made possible by the integration between watsonx.data and IBM Cloud® Event Notifications. To send information to Event Notifications, you must connect your watsonx.data instance to Event Notifications. For more information about working with Event Notifications, see Getting started with Event Notifications. Getting started with Event Notifications How events are collected and sent by watsonx.data When an event of interest takes place in your watsonx.data instance, watsonx.data communicates with a connected Event Notifications instance to forward a notification to a supported destination. supported destination Events for watsonx.data The following table lists the watsonx.data events. Lakehouse Storage Capacity com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.storage\_capacity storage\_capacity\_warning An event is generated when the storage capacity reaches warning levels Medium Lakehouse Storage Capacity com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.storage\_capacity storage\_capacity\_error An event is generated when the storage capacity reaches error levels High Lakehouse Presto Group com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.presto\_group presto\_group\_unavailable An event is generated when the Presto group is unavailable due to an unexpected outage High Lakehouse Presto Group com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.presto\_group presto\_group\_available An event is generated when the Presto group is available Low Lakehouse Metastore com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.metastore metastore\_unavailable An event is generated when the metastore is unavailable due to an unexpected outage High Lakehouse Metastore com.ibm.cloud.lakehouse.metastore metastore\_available An event is generated when the metastore is available Low Enabling notifications Events that are generated by an instance of the watsonx.data service can be forwarded to an Event Notifications service instance that is available in the same account. You can configure only one watsonx.data instance to one Event Notifications service instance. Delivering notifications to select destinations After you enable notifications for watsonx.data, create topics and subscriptions in Event Notifications so that alerts can be forwarded and delivered to your selected destinations. For a complete list of supported destinations, see the Event Notifications documentation. Event Notifications documentation Email notifications You can use the IBM Cloud email service as a delivery channel for watsonx.data event notifications. Create an Event Notifications subscription between an existing topic and the IBM Cloud email service to forward your alerts to various recipients by email. IBM Cloud email service Create an Event Notifications subscription
