IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Dissociating a catalog from an engine Dissociating a catalog from an engine To dissociate a catalog from an engine, use one of the following methods: Dissociating a catalog from an engine in list view Click the overflow menu and then click Manage associations. In Manage associations window, clear the checkbox in the Engine column. Click Save and restart engine. Dissociating a catalog from an engine in topology view Hover over the catalog that you want to associate with an engine and click the Manage associations icon. In Manage associations window, clear the checkbox in the Engine column. Click Save and restart engine. Dissociating a catalog from an engine To dissociate a catalog from an engine, use one of the following methods: Dissociating a catalog from an engine in list view Click the overflow menu and then click Manage associations. Click the overflow menu and then click Manage associations. In Manage associations window, clear the checkbox in the Engine column. In Manage associations window, clear the checkbox in the Engine column. Click Save and restart engine. Click Save and restart engine. Dissociating a catalog from an engine in topology view Hover over the catalog that you want to associate with an engine and click the Manage associations icon. Hover over the catalog that you want to associate with an engine and click the Manage associations icon. In Manage associations window, clear the checkbox in the Engine column. In Manage associations window, clear the checkbox in the Engine column. Click Save and restart engine. Click Save and restart engine.
