IBM Cloud Docs Skip to contentIBM CloudCatalogCatalogCost EstimatorCost EstimatorHelpHelpDocsLog inSign upError Skip to content IBM Cloud IBM Cloud CatalogCatalog CatalogCatalog Cost EstimatorCost Estimator Cost EstimatorCost Estimator HelpHelpDocs HelpHelp Docs Docs Docs Log in Log in Sign up Sign up Error Quick start watsonx.data console Quick start watsonx.data console When you log in to the IBM® watsonx.data web console for the first time, you are presented with the quick start wizard. In this tutorial, you learn how to use the quick start wizard to configure the core components and get started with watsonx.data in a few minutes. The wizard guides you through the initial configuration process for the infrastructure components of watsonx.data. Configure a bucket Your watsonx.data needs an object storage bucket to store your raw data files. You can provision a new IBM-managed bucket or register your own bucket. You can add more buckets and register them later. In the Configure bucket page, complete the following steps: Select one of the following options and provide details. Provision new IBM-managed bucket Register my own Table 1. Add bucket Field Description Bucket Type Select from Amazon S3, IBM Storage Ceph, or IBM Cloud Object Storage. Region The region where the data bucket is available. Bucket Name Enter your bucket name. Display name Enter the bucket name to be displayed on-screen. Endpoint Enter the endpoint URL. Access key Enter your access key. Secret key Enter your secret key. Connection status Click the Test connection link to test whether the bucket connection with watsonx.data is successful or not. The system displays the status message. Click Next. The IBM-managed bucket is a default 10 GB bucket. It is meant for an exploratory purpose and cannot be used to store production or sensitive data. The watsonx.data instance administrators can disable this bucket for compliance reasons. When you register your own bucket, ensure to provide the correct details for bucket configuration. The quick start wizard does not validate the bucket configuration details and you cannot modify them later. Configure a catalog Your watsonx.data needs metadata catalogs to manage your table schemas. Creating the support services for the metadata catalog adds 3 RUs/Hr to your instance run rate when you complete the quickstart process. In the Configure catalog page, complete the following steps: Select the table format for managing your data. Apache Hive and Apache Iceberg catalogs are selected by default. Click Next. Configure an engine Your watsonx.data needs a query engine to work with your data. In the Configure engine page, complete the following steps: Select the engine to run and process the data that you attached. Select the size of the engine based on the requirements of your workload. Table 2. Engine size Size Description Starter/Lite (IBM) (2 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 1 worker node. All nodes are Starter. Starter (AWS) (5.6 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 1 worker node. All nodes are cache-optimized. Small (11.2 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 3 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Medium (19.6 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 6 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Large (36.4 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 12 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Click Next. Review the configuration details In the Summary page, complete the following steps: Review the configurations before you finish setting up your watsonx.data. Click Finish and go. When the setup is complete, the watsonx.data home page appears. Resource Unit consumption begins soon after creating the support services by using the quick start wizard. You can view the run rate that is submitted for billing from the billing and usage tab. For more information, see Billing and usage Next steps You are all set to use the watsonx.data or you can configure it further. Quick start watsonx.data console When you log in to the IBM® watsonx.data web console for the first time, you are presented with the quick start wizard. In this tutorial, you learn how to use the quick start wizard to configure the core components and get started with watsonx.data in a few minutes. The wizard guides you through the initial configuration process for the infrastructure components of watsonx.data. Configure a bucket Your watsonx.data needs an object storage bucket to store your raw data files. You can provision a new IBM-managed bucket or register your own bucket. You can add more buckets and register them later. In the Configure bucket page, complete the following steps: Select one of the following options and provide details. Provision new IBM-managed bucket Register my own Table 1. Add bucket Field Description Bucket Type Select from Amazon S3, IBM Storage Ceph, or IBM Cloud Object Storage. Region The region where the data bucket is available. Bucket Name Enter your bucket name. Display name Enter the bucket name to be displayed on-screen. Endpoint Enter the endpoint URL. Access key Enter your access key. Secret key Enter your secret key. Connection status Click the Test connection link to test whether the bucket connection with watsonx.data is successful or not. The system displays the status message. Select one of the following options and provide details. Provision new IBM-managed bucket Provision new IBM-managed bucket Register my own Table 1. Add bucket Field Description Bucket Type Select from Amazon S3, IBM Storage Ceph, or IBM Cloud Object Storage. Region The region where the data bucket is available. Bucket Name Enter your bucket name. Display name Enter the bucket name to be displayed on-screen. Endpoint Enter the endpoint URL. Access key Enter your access key. Secret key Enter your secret key. Connection status Click the Test connection link to test whether the bucket connection with watsonx.data is successful or not. The system displays the status message. Register my own Bucket Type Select from Amazon S3, IBM Storage Ceph, or IBM Cloud Object Storage. Region The region where the data bucket is available. Bucket Name Enter your bucket name. Display name Enter the bucket name to be displayed on-screen. Endpoint Enter the endpoint URL. Access key Enter your access key. Secret key Enter your secret key. Connection status Click the Test connection link to test whether the bucket connection with watsonx.data is successful or not. The system displays the status message. Click Next. Click Next. The IBM-managed bucket is a default 10 GB bucket. It is meant for an exploratory purpose and cannot be used to store production or sensitive data. The watsonx.data instance administrators can disable this bucket for compliance reasons. When you register your own bucket, ensure to provide the correct details for bucket configuration. The quick start wizard does not validate the bucket configuration details and you cannot modify them later. Configure a catalog Your watsonx.data needs metadata catalogs to manage your table schemas. Creating the support services for the metadata catalog adds 3 RUs/Hr to your instance run rate when you complete the quickstart process. In the Configure catalog page, complete the following steps: Select the table format for managing your data. Apache Hive and Apache Iceberg catalogs are selected by default. Select the table format for managing your data. Apache Hive and Apache Iceberg catalogs are selected by default. Click Next. Click Next. Configure an engine Your watsonx.data needs a query engine to work with your data. In the Configure engine page, complete the following steps: Select the engine to run and process the data that you attached. Select the engine to run and process the data that you attached. Select the size of the engine based on the requirements of your workload. Table 2. Engine size Size Description Starter/Lite (IBM) (2 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 1 worker node. All nodes are Starter. Starter (AWS) (5.6 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 1 worker node. All nodes are cache- optimized. Small (11.2 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 3 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Medium (19.6 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 6 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Large (36.4 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 12 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Select the size of the engine based on the requirements of your workload. Starter/Lite (IBM) (2 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 1 worker node. All nodes are Starter. Starter (AWS) (5.6 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 1 worker node. All nodes are cache-optimized. Small (11.2 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 3 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Medium (19.6 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 6 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Large (36.4 RUs/hour) Includes 1 coordinator node and 12 worker nodes. All nodes are cache-optimized. Click Next. Click Next. Review the configuration details In the Summary page, complete the following steps: Review the configurations before you finish setting up your watsonx.data. Review the configurations before you finish setting up your watsonx.data. Click Finish and go. Click Finish and go. When the setup is complete, the watsonx.data home page appears. Resource Unit consumption begins soon after creating the support services by using the quick start wizard. You can view the run rate that is submitted for billing from the billing and usage tab. For more information, see Billing and usage Billing and usage Next steps You are all set to use the watsonx.data or you can configure it further.
