**Evaluation Warning : The document was created with Spire.Presentation for Python**Use Cases 

<table><tr><th colspan="1" rowspan="2" valign="top"><b>Use cases</b></th><th colspan="1" valign="top"><b>Knowledge management</b></th><th colspan="1" valign="top"><b>Insight extraction and AI forecasting</b></th><th colspan="1" valign="top"><b>Synthetic data Generation</b> </th><th colspan="1" valign="top"><b>Content creation</b></th></tr>
<tr><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p><b>Collect, create and share knowledge</b> </p><p>Build a Q&A resource from a broad internal or external knowledge base across your company’s proprietary data to share organizational insights. With the help of generative AI, you can analyze multiple documents and data inputs, provide effective responses based on real-time information feeds and improve documentation quality.</p></td><td colspan="1"><p><b>Extract insights and discover trends</b> </p><p>Analyze large amounts of data to identify and extract insights or facts from documents or reports, customer interactions, security or IT incidents. Discover patterns, trends or anomalies that occur within the data with the use of generative AI. From the themes extracted, traditional AI and ML algorithms can then forecast and make predictions, such as calculating credit risk, future sales, demand forecasts and inventory management, specific to the user's needs and business requirements.</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p><b>Generate synthetic tabular data</b> </p><p>Generate synthetic tabular data to protect sensitive information during testing stages. Address data gaps and reduce the risk of exposing an individual’s personal data by taking advantage of data created artificially through computer simulation or algorithms. Further build and test AI and ML models with synthetic data to overcome data gaps and, in turn, improve speed to market with new AI solutions. </p></td><td colspan="1"><p><b>Generate content, technology and code</b> </p><p>New technology, content and code can be created through the power of generative AI to support developer and business user productivity across a range of business domains. The content generated can include lesson planning and curriculum development, ideas for marketing and sales campaigns, emails, blogs, social media posts, product demonstrations, synthetic data images, technical documentation, user persona development, automated reports, scripts and more.</p></td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="1" valign="top"><b>Capabilities</b></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- Insurance claim – insurance claim applications can be quickly analyzed by generative AI and determine whether a claim should be approved or not based off of internal guidelines.</p><p>- Improve customer service – employees from different departments can stay informed on the customer's history through a summary of past interactions.</p><p>- Employee training – new employees are able to quickly learn and get comfortable with the inner workings of the enterprise through a central knowledge repository (YourLearning).</p></td><td colspan="1"><p>- IT detection – generative AI can be utilized to detect IT risk and fraud in real-time therefore creating a proactive approach to mitigating risk, finding alerts and errors in IT operations.</p><p>- Forecast trends – ML can be used to analyze historical data and find trends, then GAI can be utilized to create personalized recommendations to address the trends found</p><p>- Customer churn – AI can be used to detect if a customer's sentiment has changed and forecast if and when the customer will churn. Generative AI can be utilized to create personal recommendations or messaging.</p></td><td colspan="1"><p>- Mimic – allows certain enterprises, such as financial services or healthcare industry, to mask private personal information, subject to privacy or copyright laws.</p><p>- Simulate – generative AI can be used to simulate scenarios that have not happened or there is not real data on it.</p><p>- Train AI models – sometimes there isn't enough data to train a model, but generative AI opens the door for data scientists to create datasets to improve model output and data quality.</p></td><td colspan="1"><p>- Marketing and Sales campaigns – watsonx.ai can be used to help generate content for campaigns or even help with the ideation process.</p><p>- Product demonstrations – streamline the time it takes for product teams to go from ideation to design by using generative AI to create multiple complex product demos.</p><p>- Streamline market research – watsonx.ai can be used to conduct automated surveys and gather insights into the customer's needs as well as derive latest trends and updates from market research reports.</p></td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="1" valign="top"><b>Routes to Market</b></td><td colspan="1"><p>• Cross-industries: Compliance/records management, </p><p>information technology, human resources, finance/procurement, and customer support</p><p>• •</p><p>Geos: Worldwide, but the US and Western Europe most likely to adopt.</p><p>Field Sales, IBM Consulting | Partners – Build and Sell</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>• Cross-industries: Cybersecurity, financial services, healthcare, and insurance</p><p>• •</p><p>Geos: Worldwide, but focus on North America & Europe Field Sales, IBM Consulting | Partners – Build and Sell</p></td><td colspan="1"><p>• Cross-industries: Manufacturing & infrastructure, technology services, financial services, automotive, and distribution</p><p>• •</p><p>Geos: Worldwide, focus on North America, Europe, Asia- Pacific.</p><p>Field Sales, IBM Consulting | Partners – Build and Sell</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- Cross-industries: Marketing, financial services, information technology, and telecommunications.</p><p>- Geos: Worldwide, but North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, South America, and Middle East & Africa more likely to adopt.</p><p>- Field Sales, IBM Consulting | Partners – Build and Sell</p></td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p><b>Key client</b> </p><p><b>stories</b></p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- CrushBank – using watsonx.ai to analyze various internal documents and provide IT agents with a comprehensive and accurate summary.</p><p>- Hanzo – leveraging watsonx.ai to reduce the challenge of managing massive amounts of data, especially for legal, HR, security, & IT professionals.</p><p>- Mercado Latino – using watsonx for employee training, employee tracking, customer, auto form-fill and much more.</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- Capital Bank – utilizing watsonx to help drive predictive analytics, reduce customer churn, identify fraud and risky transactions, and optimize precision target marketing.</p><p>- VitalProbe – through the use of predictive models within watsonx.ai, VitalProbe is using generative AI to help identify customer's health risks and empower health practitioners to make a better informed decision.</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- Blue Company – used generative AI to create synthetic datasets mimicking how cars act on the road in an effort to improve road safety through the creation of a platform.</p><p>- NASA – utilizing watsonx.ai to convert satellite data into high-resolution maps and attempt to predict the future state of the world, in terms of floods, fires, and other landscape changes.</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>• iTromso – leveraging generative AI to help journalists spend less time on planning, and instead focus on other tasks, including ethical evaluations, conducting interviews, and writing articles.</p><p>•</p><p>Samsung – using watsonx.ai to build an advanced conversational AI chatbot and a personalized product recommendations engine.</p></td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="1" valign="top"><b>Demand Tactics</b></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- Digital: Free trial and/or Request a Live Demo </p><p>- FtF: Client briefingand/or Pilot program</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- Digital: Free trial and/or Request a Live Demo </p><p>- FtF: Client briefingand/or Pilot program</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- Digital: Free trial and/or Request a Live Demo </p><p>- FtF: Client briefingand/or Pilot program</p></td><td colspan="1" valign="top"><p>- Digital: Free trial and/or Request a Live Demo </p><p>- FtF: Client briefingand/or Pilot program</p></td></tr>
<tr><td colspan="1" valign="top"><b>Sales Plays</b></td><td colspan="1"><p>• Leverage sell and build partners ecosystem to enable reselling and build on top of our technology</p><p>•</p><p>Cross selling opportunities with watsonx platform and other IBM products e.g., Watson Assistant, Cognos Analytics, IBM Security, etc. </p></td><td colspan="1"><p>• Leverage sell and build partners ecosystem to enable reselling and build on top of our technology</p><p>•</p><p>Cross selling opportunities with watsonx platform and other IBM products e.g., Watson Assistant, Cognos Analytics, IBM Security, etc. </p></td><td colspan="1"><p>• Leverage sell and build partners ecosystem to enable reselling and build on top of our technology</p><p>•</p><p>Cross selling opportunities with watsonx platform and other IBM products e.g., Watson Assistant, Cognos Analytics, IBM Security, etc. </p></td><td colspan="1"><p>• Leverage sell and build partners ecosystem to enable reselling and build on top of our technology</p><p>•</p><p>Cross selling opportunities with watsonx platform and other IBM products e.g., Watson Assistant, Cognos Analytics, IBM Security, etc. </p></td></tr>
</table>

1

Product Marketing / Business Marketing Template /  December 14, 2023/ © 2023 IBM Corporation
